docs: PEM-10795: VMware IP Allocation (#10473)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/data-center/maas/create-manage-maas-lxd-clusters.md

    ![Activating the Host LXD-Based Control Planes switch](../../../../../static/assets/docs/images/clusters_data-center_maas_profile-lxd-4-7-b.webp)

12. Configure the control plane and worker node pools. The following input fields apply to MAAS node pools. The **Use

>     LXD VMs** and **Network Type** fields are only available when configuring the control plane pool. For a detailed

Author: ```suggestion
12. Configure the control plane and worker node pools. The following input fields apply to MAAS node pools. For a detailed
```

    list of input fields that are common across environments and their usage, refer to our
    [Node Pools](../../cluster-management/node-pool.md#node-pool-configuration-settings) guide. Select **Next** when
    finished.

    #### Cloud Configuration

    | **Parameter**          | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
    | ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

>     | **Use LXD VMs**        | Select this option to deploy the workload cluster's control plane nodes as LXD VMs instead of on bare metal MAAS servers. This option is only displayed when configuring the control plane pool, if you have KVM or LXD enabled on MAAS and you did _not_ select **Host LXD-Based Control Planes** in step 11.                                                               |

Author: ```suggestion
    | **Use LXD VMs**        | (Control plane pools only) This option is only displayed if you have KVM or LXD enabled on MAAS and you did _not_ select **Host LXD-Based Control Planes** in step 11. Select this option to deploy the workload cluster's control plane nodes as LXD VMs instead of on bare metal MAAS servers.                                                                |
```

    | **Resource Pool**      | The MAAS resource pool from which to select available servers for deployment. Filter available servers to only those that have at least the amount of **CPU** and **Memory** selected.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
    | **Availability zones** | Specify the Availability Zones. These should match the same zones used by the Hosted LXD-Based Control Plane.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
    | **Tags**               | Specify the MAAS machine tags so that Palette can deploy nodes onto the MAAS machines that match the provided tags. If you are using a hosted LXD-based control plane, the resource pool, availability zones, and tags must match. To learn more about MAAS tags, refer to the [MAAS Tags](https://canonical.com/maas/docs/about-machine-groups#p-22953-tags) documentation. |

>     | **Network Type**       | This option is only available when **Use LXD VMs** is enabled for the control plane pool. Select **MAAS Automatic** or **Palette Static IP Pool**. For **Palette Static IP Pool**, select the **IP Address Management** drop-down and choose the desired IP pool. The IP pool must have **Restrict to a single cluster** enabled.                                            |

Author: ```suggestion
    | **Network Type**       | (Control plane pools only) This option is only available when **Use LXD VMs** is enabled for the control plane pool. Select **MAAS Automatic** or **Palette Static IP Pool**. For **Palette Static IP Pool**, select the **IP Address Management** drop-down and choose the desired [IPAM node pool](../../pcg/manage-pcg/create-manage-node-pool.md). The IP pool must have **Restrict to a single cluster** enabled.                                            |
```
